# App Academy Rules

Course morale is important, and a set of rules and norms is part of
what makes App Academy successful. To create this culture, App Academy
has a few simple rules.

## Course Fines

When students break course rules, they will be assessed a spot
fine. Fines (excepting forfeited deposits) are applied toward a pool
that is distributed evenly to students after the course ends. Please
see your deposit agreement for details.

## Sole Arbiters of Course Rules

App Academy is the sole arbiter of the course rules. We reserve the
right to add or remove rules at any time, and apply them as we see
fit. The purpose of this clause is to enable flexibility with regards
to the course rules.

## App Academy is Full-Time

App Academy is an in-person, full-time program; you may not hold
either a full or part-time job simultaneously. You must not work a
part-time job, even if it appears not to conflict with course hours;
there will be work to do in the evenings, too. We cannot accommodate
telecommuting; you must work from our offices.

We know this can be financially difficult, but it is the only way the
program operates. Nine weeks is a short amount of time to enter a new
career and will require 100% of your concentration and energy during
that period.

Holding a job simultaneous to the program is against course rules; we
may be forced to dismiss you from the program if you do so.

You forfeit your deposit if you break this rule.

## Attendance

Daily attendance is essential, especially since students work in
pairs. If a student misses class, another student doesn't have a
partner to work with for that day. For this reason, we take absences
seriously. To ensure that everyone complies with the rules, we fine
students who miss class $100/day. Students who accrue three or more
unexcused absences may be required to leave the program, in which case
their deposit will be forfeited.

At our discretion, we may excuse pre-arranged absences in cases of
urgency.

## Tardiness

Tardiness also affects other students; your pair for that day will be
sitting waiting for his or her partner. Students must not be late to
class. Students are fined for lateness as follows:

* >1min late: $10
* >15min late: $20
* >1hr late: $50
* >2hr late: $100 (equivalent to missing class)

We do not waive tardiness fees. However, if you are not late more than
the average student, the fines from your tardiness will effectively be
neutralized by tardiness fines from other students.

## Weekly Assessments

We give weekly assessments to students so that they have feedback on
how they are doing. Assessments are also meant to keep students from
falling behind by letting them know when they are in trouble.

Assessments are very important; students are required to pass
them. Students who fail an assessment will need to make up the work to
keep up with the rest of the class. Students who fail two assessments
may be asked to leave the program.

## Classroom environment

Maintaining a focused classroom environment is important for
everyone. Outside of the course lunch hour and scheduled breaks,
students are not allowed to use any electronic devices (cell phones,
tablets, laptops, etc.)  for personal use. This includes email,
Facebook, Twitter, or Hacker News. Exceptions will be made for
emergencies. The fine is $10.

## Blogging

For every day of class, you must write a daily learning reflection
blog entry.  This blog entry must detail the concepts (syntactical and
abstract) that you learned that day. The fine for not completing this
entry is $10/day.

Daily reflections are a very important component of the
class. Summarizing what you have learned will help solidify knowledge
as well as give us feedback which will make the course better for you
and other students. This blog entry will also help in the hiring
process: you will have a detailed record of what you have learned and
how quickly you have learned it to show employers.
